[DOCS] KubeRay APIServer V2 document (#3594)
ray-project/kuberay: apiserversdk/README.md

# KubeRay APIServer SDK

> The KubeRay APIServer SDK is the HTTP proxy to the Kubernetes API server with the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The KubeRay APIServer SDK provides an HTTP proxy to the Kubernetes API server with the same
```

> interface. User can directly use Kubernetes OpenAPI Spec and CRD for create, query,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interface. Users can directly use Kubernetes OpenAPI Spec and KubeRay CRD to create, query,
```

update, and delete Ray resources. It contains following highlight features:

> 1. Compatible with Existing Kubernetes Clients and API Interface, where users can use

Author: They should be lower case. Just fixed! Thanks!

>    existing Kubernetes clients to interact with the APIServer SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   existing Kubernetes clients to interact with the proxy provided by APIServer SDK.
```

> 2. Provide APIServer SDK Go library for user to build custom HTTP middleware functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Provide APIServer SDK as a Go library for users to build their proxy with custom HTTP middleware functions.
```

## When to use APIServer SDK

You can considering using APIServer SDK if:

> - You want to interact with Ray clusters via HTTP/REST (e.g., from a UI, SDK, or CLI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You want to manage Ray clusters in Kubernetes via HTTP/REST (e.g., from a UI, SDK, or CLI).
```

- You want to create templates or default values to simplify the configuration setup.

## Installation

Please follow the [Installation](./Installation.md) guide to install the APIServer SDK.

## Quick Start

- [RayCluster Quickstart](./docs/raycluster-quickstart.md)
- [RayJob Quickstart](./docs/rayjob-quickstart.md)
- [RayService Quickstart](./docs/rayservice-quickstart.md)

## Usage

The KubeRay ApiServer exposes a RESTful API that mirrors the Kubernetes API Server. You
can interact with it using Kubernetes-style endpoints and request patterns for creating,
retrieving, updating, and deleting custom resources such as `RayCluster` and `RayJob`.

### API Structure

The KubeRay API follows standard Kubernetes conventions. The structure of the endpoint
path depends on whether you are interacting with custom resources (e.g., `RayCluster`) or
core Kubernetes resources.

#### Custom Resources

For custom resources defined by CRDs (e.g., `RayCluster`, `RayJob`, etc.), the endpoint format is:

```sh
<baseURL>/apis/ray.io/v1/namespaces/<namespace>/<resourceType>/<resourceName>
```

- `namespace` = your target Kubernetes namespace (e.g., `default`)

> - `resourceType` = Custom resource type (e.g., `rayclusters`, `rayjobs`, `rayserve`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `resourceType` = Custom resource type (e.g., `rayclusters`, `rayjobs`, `rayservices`)
```

# KubeRay APIServer SDK

The KubeRay APIServer SDK is the HTTP proxy to the Kubernetes API server with the same

> interface. User can directly use Kubernetes OpenAPI Spec and CRD for create, delete, and

Reviewer 2: mention `query` as well? People usually say "CRUD" together

update Ray resources. It contains following highlight features:

> 1. Enable creating ComputeTemplate, which support setting default values that can be used

Reviewer 2: curious do we support compute template in v2 for now? I thought it's in stage-2

Reviewer: No, we don't. Can we remove this statement for now?

Author: Sure! I will remove this

   in other requests.
2. Compatible with Existing Kubernetes Clients and API Interface, where users can use
   existing Kubernetes clients to interact with the APIServer SDK.
3. Provide APIServer SDK Go library for user to build custom HTTP middleware functions.

## When to use APIServer SDK

> KubeRay APIServer SDK featured in simplify Ray resources management by hiding

Reviewer 2: `features`

Reviewer 2: `simplifying`

Reviewer: I think "hiding Kubernetes-specific details" isn't correct. Can we just remove it and only keep "You can consider using APIServer SDK if"

Author: No problem!

Kubernetes-specific details. You can considering using APIServer SDK if:

- You want to interact with Ray clusters via HTTP/REST (e.g., from a UI, SDK, or CLI).

> - Your team prefers a simplified, non-Kubernetes-specific API surface to manage resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This is incorrect too.

lifecycles.

> - You want to create templates or defulat values to simplify the configuration setup.

Reviewer 2: `default`

## Installation

Please follow the [Installation](./Installation.md) guide to install the APIServer SDK.

## Quick Start

- [RayCluster Quickstart](./docs/raycluster-quickstart.md)
- [RayJob Quickstart](./docs/rayjob-quickstart.md)
- [RayService Quickstart](./docs/rayservice-quickstart.md)

## Usage

> The KubeRay ApiServer exposes a RESTful API that mirrors the Kubernetes API Server. You

Reviewer 2: curious can we use `kubectl` for resource access?

Author: Yes, we can use `kubectl` for CRUD the resources

can interact with it using Kubernetes-style endpoints and request patterns for creating,
retrieving, updating, and deleting custom resources such as `RayCluster` and `RayJob`.

### API Structure

The KubeRay API follows standard Kubernetes conventions. The structure of the endpoint

> path depends on whether you are interacting with custom resources (e.g. `RayCluster`) or

Reviewer 2: nit: `e.g.,`, from chatgpt

core Kubernetes resources.

#### Custom Resources

> For custom resources defined by CRDs (e.g. `RayCluster`, `RayJob`, etc.), the endpoint format is:

Reviewer 2: nit: `e.g.,`, from chatgpt

```sh

> <baseURL>/apis/<group>/<version>/namespaces/<namespace>/<resourceType>/<resourceName>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<baseURL>/apis/ray.io/v1/namespaces/<namespace>/<resourceType>/<resourceName>
```

```

For Ray's CRDs:

> - `group` = `ray.io`
> - `version` = `v1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Just make it simpler by embedding the group and the version to the url.

- `namespace` = your target Kubernetes namespace (e.g., `default`)

> - `resourceType` = Custom resource type (e.g. `rayclusters`, `rayjobs`, `rayserve`)

Reviewer 2: nit: `e.g.,`, from chatgpt

- `resourceName` = name of the resource.

#### Core Kubernetes Resources

> For built-in Kubernetes resources (e.g. `ConfigMap`), the endpoint format is:

Reviewer 2: nit: `e.g.,`, from chatgpt

```sh
<baseURL>/api/v1/namespaces/<namespace>/<resourceType>/<resourceName>
```

- `namespace`: The target namespace

> - `resourceType`: Core resource type (e.g. `pods`, `configmaps`, `services`)

Reviewer 2: nit: `e.g.,`, from chatgpt

> #### Core Kubernetes Resources
> 
> For built-in Kubernetes resources (e.g. `ConfigMap`), the endpoint format is:
> 
> ```sh
> <baseURL>/api/v1/namespaces/<namespace>/<resourceType>/<resourceName>
> ```
> 
> - `namespace`: The target namespace
> - `resourceType`: Core resource type (e.g. `pods`, `configmaps`, `services`)
> - `resourceName`: Name of the resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We don't provide access to built-in Kubernetes resources by default.

Author: Got it! Will remove this

### Label and Field Selectors

> When listing resources (using `GET` on a collection endpoint), you can filter results using selectors:

Reviewer 2: when "listing" resource, or when **fetching** resource?
I'm sensitive to these verbs since they imply different api call and overhead

Author: For this one I think it is "listing", while it gets a collection of resources and filtered them by labels

> - Label selector: label selector filters resources by their labels.

Reviewer 2: nit: no need to repeat "label selector"

```sh
# Get all RayClusters with the label key=value
GET /apis/ray.io/v1/namespaces/default/rayclusters?labelSelector=key%3Dvalue
```

- Field selector: field selector filters resources based on the value their resource

> fields (e.g. `metadata.name`, `status.phase`).

Reviewer 2: nit: `e.g.,`, from chatgpt
